2004-11-01  Andreas Koenig  <andk@cpan.org>

	* About to check in rev 519 which should contain code that is able
	to survive several alter table commands. The change should not
	break anything.

	* Once again trying to clean up the chapterid mess.

	The database has three tables with a field named chapterid. In
	mod.mods and mod.applymod the field is char(2), in mod.chapters it
	is char(80). But the field *chapternr* in table mod.chapters is
	char(2). Much reason for confusion.

	Besides, there is a permanent need to switch back and forth
	between integer values and integer values with leading spaces and
	integer values with leading underscores (because chtml does not
	allow leading blanks). That makes changes regarding the chapter
	stuff difficult.
	
	In the first round, I aim at changing the database thusly:

	alter table chapters modify chapternr int(10) unsigned not null default '0';
	alter table mods     modify chapterid int(10) unsigned not null default '0';
	alter table applymod modify chapterid int(10) unsigned not null default '0';
	
	The next thing I find annoying is that the field
	mod.chapter.shorttitle always redundantly contains the number that
	is already in the chapternr field. And I dislike the idea that
	"99" stands for Unknown where we could do so well with having ""
	stand for unknown. So the next step whould be:

	delete from chapters where chapternr=99;
	chapters set shorttitle=substring(shorttitle,4);

	Before doing any of the above, I try to write the code in a way
	that works before and after the change, so its easier to switch
	back.

	The "99" thing seems low-risk, so I start addressing this
	immediately. Everything else is protected by the global variable
	$strict_chapterid.

	Finally I would like to address the redundant number in the
	chapterid field in the chapters table (the one with the char(80)
	specification). Maybe something like:

	update chapters set chapterid=substring(chapterid,4) where chapterid like '_)%';	update chapters set chapterid=substring(chapterid,5) where chapterid like '__)%';

	And the field name should also change. But I do not yet dare to
	start working on that.
	
2004-10-31  Andreas Koenig  <andk@cpan.org>

	
	Local Variables:
	mode: change-log
	change-log-default-name: "memo.chapterid-2004-11.txt"
	End:
